# Myco UI

This is a general overview of Myco's UI. For a description of how organisms work, see `organism.md`. For documentation on individual commands, see `commands.md`.

## CLI

Running the program with no arguments will start it immediately. If a filename is passed, each line from that file will be interpreted as a command and run.

The following flags are also accepted:

- `--width N`: Set the width of the world to N cells (500 by default).
- `--height N`: Set the height of the world to N cells (500 by default).
- `--view-width N`: Set the width of the viewing window to N cells (35 by default).
- `--view-height N`: Set the height of the viewing window to N cells (35 by default).
- `--write-error-chance N`: Generate the board with random values for 1/N of the cells (100% by default), or 0% if N is zero.
- `--seed N`: Set the RNG seed to 64-bit integer N (randomly generated by default). This can be viewed with `:seed`.
- `--profile`: Generate the grid and run the initialization file, then halt. Useful for profiling.

## Commands

While the UI is open:

- Use the arrow keys to move the selection (represented with `[  ]`).
- Use `h`, `j`, `k`, and `l` to move the viewing window left, down, up, and right.
- Use `w` and `s` to scroll up and down through the info box at the bottom.
- Use `p` to pause/unpause the simulation.
- Use space to run a single cycle of the simulation when it is paused.
- Use escape to deselect.
- Use `:` to type a command.
- Use `.` to re-run the last valid command.